docs/Model_Assumptions.rst, before:

================================
Moddeling Assumptions of the MVS
================================

Component models
----------------

The component models of the MVS result from the used python-library `oemof-solph` for energy modeling.

It requires component models to be simplified and linearized.
This is the reason that the MVS can provide a pre-feasibility study of a specific system setup,
but not the final sizing and system design.
The types of assets are presented below.

Non-dispatchable sources of generation
######################################

`Examples`:

    - PV plant
    - Wind plant

Dispatchable sources of generation
##################################

`Examples`:

    - Fuel sources
    - Run-of-the-river hydro power plant
    - Deep-ground geothermal plant (ground assumed to allow unlimited extraction of heat, not depending on season)

Fuel sources are added as dispatchable sources, which still can have development, investment, operational and dispatch costs.
They are added by adding a column in `energyProviders.CSV`, and setting file_name to `None`.

DSOs, eventhough also dispatchable sources of generation, should be added via `energyProviders.csv`,
as there are some additional features available then.

Both DSOs and the additional fuel sources are limited to following options:
- Electricity
- Heat
- H2
- Diesel
- Gas

This is as the default weighting factors to translate the energy carrier into electricity equivalent need to be defined. This definition is currently hard-coded in `constants.py` with `DEFAULT_WEIGHTS_ENERGY_CARRIERS`. With new energy carriers necessary, the list can easily be extended. Please see below for more information.

Dispatchable conversion assets
##############################

`Examples`:

    - Diesel generator
    - Electric transformers (rectifiers, inverters)

Energy excess
#############

An energy excess sink is placed on each of the LES energy busses, and therefore energy excess is allowed to take place on each bus of the LES.
This means that there are assumed to be sufficient vents (heat) or transistors (electricity) to dump excess (waste) generation.
Excess generation can only take place when a non-dispatchable source is present or if an asset can supply energy without any fuel or dispatch costs.


Energy providers (DSOs)
-----------------------

The energy providers are the most complex assets in the MVS model. They are composed of a number of sub-assets

    - Energy consumption source, providing the energy required from the system with a certain price
    - Energy peak demand pricing "transformers", which represent the costs induced due to peak demand
    - Bus connecting energy consumption source and energy peak demand pricing transformers
    - Energy feed-in sink, able to take in generation that is provided to the DSO for revenue
    - Optionally: Transformer Station connecting the DSO bus to the energy bus of the LES

With all these components, the DSO can be vizualized as follows:

.. image:: images/Model_Assumptions_energyProvider_assets.png
 :width: 600

Variable energy consumption prices (timeseries)
###############################################

- Link to howto

Peak demand pricing
###################

A peak demand pricing scheme is based on an electricity tariff,
that requires the consumer not only to pay for the aggregated energy consumption in a time period (eg. kWh electricity),
but also for the maximum peak demand (load, eg. kW power) towards the DSO grid within a specific pricing period.

In the MVS, this information is gathered for the `energyProviders` with:

    - :const:`mvs_eland.utils.constants_json_strings.PEAK_DEMAND_PRICING_PERIOD` as the period used in peak demand pricing. Possible is 1 (yearly), 2 (half-yearly), 3 (each trimester), 4 (quaterly), 6 (every 2 months) and 12 (each month). If you have a `simulation_duration` < 365 days, the periods will still be set up assuming a year! This means, that if you are simulating 14 days, you will never be able to have more than one peak demand pricing period in place.

    - :const:`mvs_eland.utils.constants_json_strings.PEAK_DEMAND_PRICING` as the costs per peak load unit, eg. kW

To repesent the peak demand pricing, the MVS adds a "transformer" that is optimized with specific operation and maintainance costs per year equal to the PEAK_DEMAND_PRICING for each of the pricing periods.
For two peak demand pricing persiods, the resulting dispatch could look as following:

.. image:: images/Model_Assumptions_Peak_Demand_Pricing_Dispatch_Graph.png
 :width: 600

Constraints
-----------

Constraints are controlled with the file `constraints.csv`.

Minimal renewable share constraint
##################################

The minimal renewable share constraint requires the capacity and dispatch optimization of the MVS to reach at least the minimal renewable share defined within the constraint. The renewable share of the optimized energy system may also be higher then the minimal renewable share.

The minimal renewable share is applied to the minimal renewable share of the whole, sector-coupled energy system, but not specific sectors. As such, energy carrier weighting plays a role and may lead to unexpected results. The constraint reads as follows:

.. math:
        minimal renewable factor <= \frac{\sum renewable generation \cdot weighting factor}{\sum renewable generation \cdot weighting factor + \sum non-renewable generation \cdot weighting factor}


:Deactivating the constraint:

The minimal renewable share constraint is deactivated by defining following row in `constraints.csv` as follows:

```minimal_renewable_share,factor,0```

:Activating the constraint:

The constraint is enabled when the value of the minimal renewable share factor is above 0 in `constraints.csv`:

```minimal_renewable_share,factor,0.3```


Depending on the energy system, especially when working assets which are not to be capacity-optimized, it is possible that the minimal renewable share criterion can not be met. The simulation terminates in that case. If you are not sure if your energy system can meet the constraint, set all `optimize_Cap` to `True`, and then investigate further.
Also, if you are aiming at very high minimal renewable shares, the simulation time can increase drastically. If you do not get a result after a maximum of 20 Minutes, you should consider terminating the simulation and trying with a lower minimum renewable share.

The minimum renewable share is introduced to the energy system by `D2.constraint_minimal_renewable_share()` and a validation test is performed with `E4.minimal_renewable_share_test()`.

Weighting of energy carriers
----------------------------

To be able to calculate sector-wide key performance indicators, it is necessary to weight energy carriers depending on their usable potential. With the conference paper handed in to the CIRED workshop we propose a methodolgy comparable to Gasoline Gallon Equivalents. This definition is currently hard-coded in `constants.py` with `DEFAULT_WEIGHTS_ENERGY_CARRIERS`. New energy carriers should be atted to its list. Unknown carriers raise an `UnknownEnergyCarrier` Error.

Following conversion factors and energy carriers are defined:

.. list-table:: Weights of energy carriers
   :widths: 50 25 25 25
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Energy carrier
     - Energy carrier unit
     - Conversion factor unit
     - Value of conversion factor
   * - Electricity
     - kWh_el
     - kWh_eleq/kWh_el
     - 1
   * - Heat
     - kWh_therm
     - kWh_eleq/kWh_therm
     - 1
   * - H2
     - kg
     - kWh_eleq/kg
     - 32.87
   * - Diesel
     - l
     - kWh_eleq/l
     - 8.20
   * - Gas
     - l
     - kWh_eleq/l
     - 5.38

The confersion factors are derived from their `Gasoline Gallon Equivalents.<https://epact.energy.gov/fuel-conversion-factors>`_


Limitations
-----------

Perfect foresight
#################
- Battery charge

Infeasible dispatch of assets
#############################

- Energy consumption and feed-in at the same time
- Bi-directional inverters

Commit message:

Add limitation - pv peak production > inverter

docs/Model_Assumptions.rst, after:

================================
Moddeling Assumptions of the MVS
================================

Component models
----------------

The component models of the MVS result from the used python-library `oemof-solph` for energy modeling.

It requires component models to be simplified and linearized.
This is the reason that the MVS can provide a pre-feasibility study of a specific system setup,
but not the final sizing and system design.
The types of assets are presented below.

Non-dispatchable sources of generation
######################################

`Examples`:

    - PV plant
    - Wind plant

Dispatchable sources of generation
##################################

`Examples`:

    - Fuel sources
    - Run-of-the-river hydro power plant
    - Deep-ground geothermal plant (ground assumed to allow unlimited extraction of heat, not depending on season)

Fuel sources are added as dispatchable sources, which still can have development, investment, operational and dispatch costs.
They are added by adding a column in `energyProviders.CSV`, and setting file_name to `None`.

DSOs, eventhough also dispatchable sources of generation, should be added via `energyProviders.csv`,
as there are some additional features available then.

Both DSOs and the additional fuel sources are limited to following options:
- Electricity
- Heat
- H2
- Diesel
- Gas

This is as the default weighting factors to translate the energy carrier into electricity equivalent need to be defined. This definition is currently hard-coded in `constants.py` with `DEFAULT_WEIGHTS_ENERGY_CARRIERS`. With new energy carriers necessary, the list can easily be extended. Please see below for more information.

Dispatchable conversion assets
##############################

`Examples`:

    - Diesel generator
    - Electric transformers (rectifiers, inverters)

In case energy excess is cheaper than investing into higher solar inverter capacities the results will show an optimized inverter capacity that is smaller than the peak generation of installed PV.
This becomes unrealistic when the excess is very high. In this case, MVS will give a warning.

Energy excess
#############

An energy excess sink is placed on each of the LES energy busses, and therefore energy excess is allowed to take place on each bus of the LES.
This means that there are assumed to be sufficient vents (heat) or transistors (electricity) to dump excess (waste) generation.
Excess generation can only take place when a non-dispatchable source is present or if an asset can supply energy without any fuel or dispatch costs.


Energy providers (DSOs)
-----------------------

The energy providers are the most complex assets in the MVS model. They are composed of a number of sub-assets

    - Energy consumption source, providing the energy required from the system with a certain price
    - Energy peak demand pricing "transformers", which represent the costs induced due to peak demand
    - Bus connecting energy consumption source and energy peak demand pricing transformers
    - Energy feed-in sink, able to take in generation that is provided to the DSO for revenue
    - Optionally: Transformer Station connecting the DSO bus to the energy bus of the LES

With all these components, the DSO can be vizualized as follows:

.. image:: images/Model_Assumptions_energyProvider_assets.png
 :width: 600

Variable energy consumption prices (timeseries)
###############################################

- Link to howto

Peak demand pricing
###################

A peak demand pricing scheme is based on an electricity tariff,
that requires the consumer not only to pay for the aggregated energy consumption in a time period (eg. kWh electricity),
but also for the maximum peak demand (load, eg. kW power) towards the DSO grid within a specific pricing period.

In the MVS, this information is gathered for the `energyProviders` with:

    - :const:`mvs_eland.utils.constants_json_strings.PEAK_DEMAND_PRICING_PERIOD` as the period used in peak demand pricing. Possible is 1 (yearly), 2 (half-yearly), 3 (each trimester), 4 (quaterly), 6 (every 2 months) and 12 (each month). If you have a `simulation_duration` < 365 days, the periods will still be set up assuming a year! This means, that if you are simulating 14 days, you will never be able to have more than one peak demand pricing period in place.

    - :const:`mvs_eland.utils.constants_json_strings.PEAK_DEMAND_PRICING` as the costs per peak load unit, eg. kW

To repesent the peak demand pricing, the MVS adds a "transformer" that is optimized with specific operation and maintainance costs per year equal to the PEAK_DEMAND_PRICING for each of the pricing periods.
For two peak demand pricing persiods, the resulting dispatch could look as following:

.. image:: images/Model_Assumptions_Peak_Demand_Pricing_Dispatch_Graph.png
 :width: 600

Constraints
-----------

Constraints are controlled with the file `constraints.csv`.

Minimal renewable share constraint
##################################

The minimal renewable share constraint requires the capacity and dispatch optimization of the MVS to reach at least the minimal renewable share defined within the constraint. The renewable share of the optimized energy system may also be higher then the minimal renewable share.

The minimal renewable share is applied to the minimal renewable share of the whole, sector-coupled energy system, but not specific sectors. As such, energy carrier weighting plays a role and may lead to unexpected results. The constraint reads as follows:

.. math:
        minimal renewable factor <= \frac{\sum renewable generation \cdot weighting factor}{\sum renewable generation \cdot weighting factor + \sum non-renewable generation \cdot weighting factor}


:Deactivating the constraint:

The minimal renewable share constraint is deactivated by defining following row in `constraints.csv` as follows:

```minimal_renewable_share,factor,0```

:Activating the constraint:

The constraint is enabled when the value of the minimal renewable share factor is above 0 in `constraints.csv`:

```minimal_renewable_share,factor,0.3```


Depending on the energy system, especially when working assets which are not to be capacity-optimized, it is possible that the minimal renewable share criterion can not be met. The simulation terminates in that case. If you are not sure if your energy system can meet the constraint, set all `optimize_Cap` to `True`, and then investigate further.
Also, if you are aiming at very high minimal renewable shares, the simulation time can increase drastically. If you do not get a result after a maximum of 20 Minutes, you should consider terminating the simulation and trying with a lower minimum renewable share.

The minimum renewable share is introduced to the energy system by `D2.constraint_minimal_renewable_share()` and a validation test is performed with `E4.minimal_renewable_share_test()`.

Weighting of energy carriers
----------------------------

To be able to calculate sector-wide key performance indicators, it is necessary to weight energy carriers depending on their usable potential. With the conference paper handed in to the CIRED workshop we propose a methodolgy comparable to Gasoline Gallon Equivalents. This definition is currently hard-coded in `constants.py` with `DEFAULT_WEIGHTS_ENERGY_CARRIERS`. New energy carriers should be atted to its list. Unknown carriers raise an `UnknownEnergyCarrier` Error.

Following conversion factors and energy carriers are defined:

.. list-table:: Weights of energy carriers
   :widths: 50 25 25 25
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Energy carrier
     - Energy carrier unit
     - Conversion factor unit
     - Value of conversion factor
   * - Electricity
     - kWh_el
     - kWh_eleq/kWh_el
     - 1
   * - Heat
     - kWh_therm
     - kWh_eleq/kWh_therm
     - 1
   * - H2
     - kg
     - kWh_eleq/kg
     - 32.87
   * - Diesel
     - l
     - kWh_eleq/l
     - 8.20
   * - Gas
     - l
     - kWh_eleq/l
     - 5.38

The confersion factors are derived from their `Gasoline Gallon Equivalents.<https://epact.energy.gov/fuel-conversion-factors>`_


Limitations
-----------

Perfect foresight
#################
- Battery charge

Infeasible dispatch of assets
#############################

- Energy consumption and feed-in at the same time
- Bi-directional inverters
